Good afternoon.
Welcome to session 603,
Media Integration with QuickTime.
I'm Eric Blanpied.
I work on interactivity
on the QuickTime team.
We're going to have a lot
of interesting topics today,
talking about QuickTime's interactive
features and mixing media together.
We're going to concentrate on these
things from a content point of view,
looking at a lot of demos and
movies and showing something about
doing some content authoring.
And that will fit well with the
session which follows this one,
when Tim Monroe will tell you a
lot about the API work involved in
making tools that do that stuff.
We'll also spend a bit of time
talking about third-party components,
talking about a lot of
opportunities for developers there,
and some new things that will be coming
in QuickTime 6 for interactivity.
The basic layout of the
session is going to be,
we'll start by talking a bit about linear
media and how to mix that media and
what features QuickTime has for that.
We'll get into a lot of the interactive
technologies that are in QuickTime,
the various media types
and other features.
And we'll talk a bit about server
communication between movies and servers.
And sprinkled throughout there,
we'll have some things about
some of the new features.
and throughout it there'll
be lots of demos and we'll
be building various things.
Helping me out with a lot
of this will be Ben Bandt,
who will help right now.
Thanks, Eric.
To start off,
I'd like to explain a little how
QuickTime can help in the digital
multimedia production workflow,
even if you don't intend to ever
deliver your content via QuickTime.
Could I get actually demo two on AV,
please?
When talking about the other media
technologies available for your use,
one might characterize them, say,
Reel or Windows Media,
as a player application or as a file
format or as an ad insertion mechanism.
But it would really be doing
QuickTime an injustice to characterize
it only as a .mov or only as
QuickTime player because .movs are
only one of hundreds of file formats
that QuickTime can understand and open.
And QuickTime player is only
one of maybe hundreds or even
thousands of applications that
you folks have written that rely
on the extensive QuickTime APIs to
open all these file formats.
So, let's open a few files, shall we?
So let's say you were making a cartoon.
You might start out by hand
drawing the animation and scanning
it into your Mac or your PC,
and you'd end up with a Photoshop file.
Now while a Photoshop file
is not the most ideal way to
present an image on the web,
QuickTime does understand
Photoshop files.
So what we can do
is drop that into IE, and there's a full,
maybe five-meg Photoshop file
displayed in IE.
IE doesn't know how to
understand Photoshop files,
but the QuickTime plugin does.
With QuickTime 6 on Mac OS X,
we also are able to understand PDFs.
which is just an amazing
vector format for images.
So you might take that Photoshop file,
trace it in Illustrator,
another professional vector
authoring application,
and QuickTime can understand the
media at every step of the way.
And with Illustrator 10 on Mac OS X,
Illustrator files are now PDF compatible.
So QuickTime can understand
Illustrator files as well,
and so can all of the applications
that you have written that
rely on the QuickTime APIs.
So say BBEdit.
can open and understand QuickTime files.
Now BBEdit is opening
Illustrator files for free.
Now, you may be complaining that you
don't get to charge for an upgrade,
but neither do we.
So, back to Eric.
ERIC BLAINPIED: Okay.
Get the slides, please.
So we've got an idea
about what QuickTime is.
We spent some time talking about
it in a number of sessions today,
particularly a fair amount
about audio and video,
which we're all used to.
We've gone over that
there's a ton of formats,
still image formats and whatnot,
and various audio formats.
But what we haven't spent much
time talking about is the ways
that you can combine these things,
and the compositing you can do,
and the kind of really dynamic movies
you can make that have a lot more than
just a little bit of stuff in them.
How this works, we've got the basic
container being a movie.
I could really use a whiteboard for this.
Ben, do you have anything?
Yeah, I have a whiteboard.
Could I get a demo 2 again?
Yeah, that'll work.
Let's see.
Yeah, that's great.
Okay.
Great.
I got a whiteboard.
I got some pens.
So, the basic item, the basic unit of a
QuickTime movie is the movie.
And now a movie can either be a file
or it can just be a movie in memory.
It doesn't really matter.
But most of the we think of
it as being a movie file.
Then a movie is made up of tracks.
One or more tracks,
theoretically an unlimited
number of tracks,
such as a video track, a maybe,
Audio Track if we're going to
make a typical linear movie here.
[Transcript missing]
A media sample,
it's the smaller unit within a track.
You have one track per
media type in a movie,
or a minimum of one track.
A particular track, like a video track,
can have multiple samples of different
durations drawn by different codecs.
But you need at least one track
for each kind of media you have.
Like maybe we'd add a text track
to this movie for captions,
so it would be...
Another type of track with samples
that might be of a rather different
duration than what else is going
on with the text data in it.
Now the media used by a movie can
be stored within the movie file or
stored externally in other files such
as other movie files or any kind of
media file that QuickTime can handle,
like the audio track
here might be in a...
And as long as the files stick together,
then that's going to work out fine.
But a lot of times to be more portable,
you want to flatten them together,
or do what we call flattening.
It's also in the UI,
it's save as self-contained.
But that allows you to pull all the
data in and have QuickTime lay it
out in a logical fashion so that
the file is much more portable.
So a good tool for picking
apart a movie and looking at how
it's made is QuickTime Player.
So let's go and have a look at that.
Thanks, Eric.
So let's just quickly
pick some kind of a movie.
Let's have a look at, what the heck,
how about the whiteboard movie?
So a lot of you probably know this,
but the basic ideas in QuickTime Player,
you can have a look at what's in
your movie with get movie properties.
You get a nice little pop-up here with
data about the movie at its top level,
like its size, what files it references,
and so on.
And then you get an item for each track,
which would tell you things
like what file it came from,
the format of the track.
All sorts of useful things.
We can change the layering and
graphics modes and whatnot.
And we'll look at this
sort of thing more.
But QuickTime Player we
need to look at as,
or QuickTime Player Pro at least,
as sort of the first level
QuickTime authoring tool.
You can do quite a lot of things in it,
and we'll mess around some here
over the course of the session
and show you some of that.
So let's get back to the slides, please.
All right, so,
so far we've talked a little bit.
We've got a number of different types
of linear media that we think of.
Such as your standard linear video.
You may remember CinePack if
you've been around for a while.
Something from the golden
age of digital video.
The first thing you need to
do is to create a new video.
You can use the "Band"
option to create a new video.
Well, that's a charming bit of video,
but it could really use to be presented
or enhanced in some kind of a way.
And as we get going in the session,
we'll try and give it a little
bit of a punch and give it
a little custom approach.
Other sorts of things that you could do
would be to leave CinePack behind and
use something like the new MPEG-4 codecs,
which you've seen plenty of so far,
I believe.
There's live streaming and canned
streaming for various kinds of broadcast.
And all those still image formats.
We've got music tracks, giving you MIDI.
QuickTime's got a big
sample library from Roland.
We've got effects,
and you've seen a bit of
that in some sessions.
Things like video filters, transitions,
and whatnot.
And tween tracks are a linear thing
that we'll wind up using in a couple
of ways that allow you to change
properties of a movie over time in
a smoothly interpolated fashion.
As far as making interactive
QuickTime movies go,
I right now am sort of thinking
of the new MPEG stuff as
being good and interesting
codecs to have at our disposal.
And one of the things that I really
like is that for good-sized movies,
the CPU requirements for a
really good-looking MPEG-4 video
seem to be a little lower than
for what we were using before,
like Sorensen 3,
making it a lot better for combining with
movies that may have a lot of other stuff
going on that needs some processor time,
too.
[Transcript missing]
Alright, so here we have an MPEG-4 video
with Flash layered on top.
The Flash is interactive,
allows us to have some actions
which start and stop it.
It's composited on top
with a nice alpha blend.
And if you try doing this
with a lot of other codecs,
it's just going to bog on you,
but this is playing at
a very nice smooth rate.
And the Flash scaled as
nicely as the MPEG-4 did.
Compositing.
So the tracks in a QuickTime movie
are layered up from front to back,
and they can have any number of
different graphics modes each.
Some types, like a text track,
can actually have a keyed setting
to make it possible to composite
the text over what's below.
And all of this is
handled by the raw codec,
well, a lot of things,
but changes in QuickTime 6 to the raw
codec and the ICM will make some of
this stuff come out in a smoother,
more accurate fashion.
You've heard something about media skins,
but, and again,
media skins often come into play when
we think about interactive movies.
They allow you to really customize
the presentation experience of
the content like nothing else,
even though they're just a simple mask.
By combining that with the various
types of tracks that you can layer
up to make a strong interface,
you can create something which
travels with the content.
Every place that QuickTimes plays,
whichever OS you're on,
it's going to open up and have the look
that that movie's supposed to have,
as opposed to something where
you've skinned a player and
you have no idea what kind of
interface is going to pop up.
And the authoring that we provide for
it can be done with very simple XML.
So we'll switch to demo two.
So let's see if we can't
make a simple skin quickly.
The simple and quick and dirty
method is just create a two-color
pic or gif or basically any image
format that QuickTime can understand,
export that, then you have
Then you have your video file,
or your VR file, or your Flash file,
or your image file,
anything that you want to skin.
Keep that around.
You combine these things very simply
with a straightforward XML file.
And QuickTime knows how to understand
this XML file format right here.
Basically, it has a movie.
The QuickTime project is a very simple
project that is very easy to implement.
It is a very
To only be able to drag
the edge of the movie,
you might use that as your drag region.
Let's open this in player.
All we have to do is
change it to a dot move.
And there she is.
So let's switch to demo one
and we'll do a little more
advanced compositing and skins.
Skins don't always have
to be simple shapes.
In fact, we encourage you to go wild.
It seems like most of the rest of
Apple wants to have you standardize on
a particular UI or make things easier
for the user through standardization.
Eric Blaznpied,
Ben Bandt-Horn Skins don't
always have to be simple shapes.
In fact, we encourage you to go wild.
It seems like most of the rest of
Apple wants to have you standardize on
a particular UI or make things easier
for the user through standardization.
Eric Blaznpied,
Ben Bandt-Horn Skins don't
always have to be simple shapes.
In fact, we encourage you to go wild.
It seems like most of the rest of
Apple wants to have you standardize on
a particular UI or make things easier
for the user through standardization.
But we think that as far
as media goes on the web,
one of the strongest,
one of the most important things you have
to accomplish is to keep and hold these
web surfers' attention spans because
they're going through ten pages a minute.
And the most important thing you can
do is give them something interesting,
a visual feast,
and encourage them to explore.
So let's do that.
Drag the monkey's head
around different chakras.
We're just playing
different MPEG-4 files,
MPEG-4 audio,
using a simple script to fade in and out.
So let's take a look inside this movie,
shall we?
We have the annotation data.
The monkey was drawn
by my roommate Brody.
And we have a number of tracks.
We'll get more into this later,
but we have movie tracks that
have an independent timeline.
One of the specific fields that
are important as far as compositing
is concerned is its layer.
It disappeared.
And it's graphics mode.
There's straight dither copy.
and other interesting effects.
Probably not transparent
is what we want there.
Let's see.
And we can take each of these
tracks and paste or add scale from
separate QuickTime windows and do
some essential compositing right
within QuickTime Player itself.
For more advanced compositing,
there are a number of tools out there.
Probably the most popular
comprehensive one is TotallyHips
Live Stage Pro for more of a UI as far
as layering and timelines and whatnot.
But you can pretty much do most of
the essential compositing techniques
right within QuickTime Player.
[Transcript missing]
First off, there's the sprite track.
Sprite tracks allow you to
do animation using a pool of
images over and over again,
and we've got a lot of wiring
that you can do with those.
Got Flash,
including Flash 5 support in QuickTime 6.
We've got text tracks,
which we can do all sorts
of interesting things with.
You'll see a lot of those today.
QuickTime VR, always a favorite.
The movie media track,
which Ben mentioned briefly,
or movies in movies, allow all sorts of
interesting opportunities.
And then all the linear media
that we've talked about and you've
heard about in other sessions,
it all comes to the party in this stuff.
To talk a little more about sprites,
the basic idea of a sprite
track is sprites are images
that are animated over time.
When the sprite track loads up,
it's got all of its
images at the beginning,
a pool of images,
which can be shared by as
many sprites as you like.
And those can be animated by tweens,
like I mentioned,
or difference frames to change their
position or other characteristics,
like graphics mode and all,
at different points in time.
And they can be drawn by any codec
that's available in QuickTime.
Another very interesting thing about
sprites is that they allow hit testing,
so you can do mouse movement
and things like that.
We use wired actions to provide
a large amount of interactivity,
a lot of manipulation over
the sprites themselves,
and over a lot of the different kinds
of media that are in a QuickTime movie.
They also can have their image driven,
what we call an override,
they can have their image drawn from
any other track within the movie.
So you can do a lot of neat composite
things just within that sprite track.
And new in QuickTime 6 is the ability to
load an external image of any type that
QuickTime knows how to handle into that
pool of images by using a wired action.
So you can do that anytime you like,
and then you've got more
images to deal with there.
So we'll do a sprite demo
now on demo 2 please.
So here is an old friend,
a basic linear sprite movie.
The fish has a number of different
poses and positions which are
just being changed over time,
which sprite is being used at what time
is changing and where it is changing.
And over the top of it we have a sprite
which is being drawn by the Ripple
codec and that is taking mouse actions
to give us the mouse click stuff.
I think the Ripple codec
got shown earlier as well.
As an example of the overrides,
we have a movie here
made by Francis Georges,
who is a really...
is a really talented
QuickTime movie author.
There's a simple movie here
with a single video track.
It's being used as an override for a
whole bunch of sprites which are tracking
the mouse and getting scaled and having
their graphics modes changed over time.
To make a really fun sort of thing,
I think this was an award-winning
movie in one of Totally Hip's contests.
Then let's look at Charlie Tuna again.
What's going on with that?
We're not online.
So let's have a look at...
All right,
so we'll just make a new project.
Oh wait, there we go,
we opened it without that.
We don't need that anyway.
So, um...
Here we've got, I've made a sprite track.
And in that sprite track,
We've got the pool of images I mentioned.
The background,
a number of different knobs.
The background image, you'll notice,
has its codec set to
use animation and alpha.
This is a picked file
with an alpha channel.
So we've got a number of
sprites that come from those.
If we look at the stage,
we'll see there's that sprite.
And then also, we've brought in the
Charlie Tuna video track.
and audio.
And that's laid there on stage as well.
And we don't see it right now because
it's being overlaid by the sprite track,
but the sprite track
will show it through.
And then we've got a skin track in there.
And the skin authoring process
here is a drag and drop your
images into the window process.
So let's have a look at this guy.
So here it is.
Oh, that's not going to skin it, is it?
So here we have the same sort of a thing,
but...
A little bit of control.
We can start and stop.
The frame is there.
And the whole thing just gives
you a little something more to
your 20-year-old Cinepac movie.
Or 30, is it?
40.
1961.
Who knew Cinepac was then?
And then we can get further,
we can get really fancy with the
scripting and do things like add
features that we don't really see
much anymore like vertical hold knobs,
which I really do miss in
this era of digital video.
And that's the sort of thing
that I don't really see in
other people's players either.
Finally, there's the new image stuff
that we've talked about.
This is an extremely simple movie.
I've got a text track up
here that I can type in.
I've got a little button here
which takes whatever URL,
a relative or absolute URL I put
in there and loads that
into the sprite right there.
And we can go ahead and do something like
open up one of these JPEG 2000 images.
[Transcript missing]
Text can't really do a lot with making
custom interfaces and highly interactive
multimedia pieces without text.
And luckily we can do all kinds
of things with text in QuickTime.
Text, as you just saw,
can be editable right there in place.
It can also be displayed anti-aliased.
It can be keyed over other things.
You also can superimpose it
over things using the various
graphic modes we've got.
You can specify hotspots
in certain ranges of text,
which can then have wired actions
attached to them to do all of
the sorts of things that we've
seen in these movies so far.
We have something called an href
track that we can make where
the text is full of samples with
descriptions of URLs and times on them.
And as a movie plays,
that makes the entire movie a
clickable thing that goes to the
URL that's present at the time.
We also have,
can use tracks as chapter tracks,
which give you an index to a movie
and allow you to jump around in time.
And then, like I said,
we got the wired actions that can
be used either triggered from them
or we can use wired actions to edit
and manipulate the text in a field
and do all sorts of things with it.
QuickTime VR is another one of the major
interactive media types in QuickTime.
It's image-based virtual reality,
meaning that rather than
doing real-time 3D stuff,
you're doing it from photographs or
photorealistically rendered images,
which gives you an image quality
that's really impossible with
a real-time 3D kind of VR.
They can consist of panoramas,
which allow you to explore a scene,
or objects,
which allow you to examine a thing.
And these different types can be
linked together to make multi-node
scenes with hotspots that allow
you to travel from one to another
or pick up an object that's inside
of a scene or things like that.
And again, you can wire up those hotspots
with QuickTime's wired actions and
trigger all sorts of interactivity
in the QuickTime VR movie or in other
tracks that are in the same movie.
And there are wired actions to
manipulate the VR from the other tracks.
So we'll look at a couple
of VR movies just quickly.
Here's a pretty nice cubic VR panorama
in Grand Central Station in New York.
As you see,
we can look all the way up here,
and this is a pretty high-res movie,
so we can really check out the details.
[Transcript missing]
That's a cubic movie.
And the other thing is that by combining
them with other types of things,
we can get into stuff
like doing spatial audio,
where the movie in this really nice
panorama by Janie Fitzgerald has got
a sprite track and some audio tracks.
The sprite track is monitoring
the pan angle and manipulating the
volume of the audio track as you go.
Movie in Movie.
One of the giant things about
importing a movie into another movie
and using it as a track is that
you get an independent time base,
or you get the option of
an independent time base,
which makes a lot of things possible
that you previously had to do in some
kind of a dedicated multimedia runtime.
You can also load anything.
It doesn't have to be our format.
It can be anything that
QuickTime knows how to play.
And you can swap this content around
dynamically by using wired actions.
So we'll go back again to demo
two and look at a bit of movie
and movie stuff in GoLive,
which has a very capable
QuickTime editor built right in.
So we'll switch to the
QuickTime authoring palette here.
And we will create a new QuickTime movie.
And I want to make that 400 by 133.
There's my movie.
You'll notice that they've got the
controller right on there right away.
They've got a dual tab setup where you've
got the preview and the layout exactly
the way they present their HTML editor.
And we can click this here, though,
and get the timeline up,
which is most useful
for what we need to do.
So I'm going to start by bringing
in a bit of linear video.
Drag a video track from there,
and it asks me to go and get the thing.
Where do we put those?
On here?
All right,
so we're going to bring in just
something to have there in the timeline.
Whether we're in preview or layout,
we can see it right away.
It's just a little bit of staticky stuff.
Let's get rid of this color track
that they put in there by default.
And we'll look at the
movie and make it loop.
Keep the standard controller.
So this guy is going to just loop
around with a bunch of static.
I guess not in the authoring environment.
So now I want to bring in a movie track.
And that guy needs to have, um...
I need to set what piece of
content it's going to reference.
And that's going to be-- actually,
let me save this first.
[Transcript missing]
We'll use that inspirational title.
All right, so there's that.
So the movie track needs its data.
We'll click the sample down here.
And we'll type in the name, which is--
[Transcript missing]
showing us that sprite track there.
And it's set-- what are the
settings on the movie track?
It's, we've got time, it's slaved,
it's off, autoplay is on,
we want to loop it though so
we can keep seeing the motion
and understand what's going on.
Notice that the playback
head is not moving,
but the animation is continuing.
Now, let's change the layering.
And we'll take the video
track and we will change it
to some other graphics mode,
like how about...
Something really garish.
And now we'll start this playing.
We've got two tracks that have
independent time bases here.
Now, if we want to change what the
movie is referring to over time,
we can add something else.
Let's go back to the QuickTime.
I'll add a sprite track.
You might notice the icon
used for sprite track.
This sprite track needs some images,
so we will import something.
And when you import it, like I said,
you can use any codec
you like for your sprite,
so we get to choose here.
I'm going to try Animation Alpha.
Let's see if we have an alpha
channel around we could use.
And then the sprite that's
being used here is being drawn
with a default sprite they add,
and I would rather use
the one I just imported,
so I select my sprite,
and I'll say image should be the dot.
Go into Layout and change
where it is on stage.
And let's...
The QuickTime app is a great
way to create a new video,
and you can use it to create a new video.
[Transcript missing]
and I have a question for you.
I'm going to ask you to
add another action and have
this one be LoadChildMovie.
That's the URL.
It already knows what the
URL I was setting it to was.
And hopefully this is
going to work when we
Save it and... Oh, wait,
we've got to set the track to
be something we can see through.
So the sprite track gets set also to
transparent with a black key color.
There we go.
So that thing is rolling,
the static's rolling,
we can scrub it all we want,
and then when we click the button,
we've loaded a different
movie into the background,
which has a rather different duration
than the other things we've had.
But still, it has a different time base,
so it doesn't matter,
it just keeps rolling on us.
So that's your basic overview
of movies and movies.
Flash 5 now.
We've had Flash support
in QuickTime for a while.
In Flash 4 we had Flash--QuickTime 4
we had Flash 3 support.
QuickTime 5 we had Flash 5 support.
And now, since we're at 6,
obviously we have to
have Flash 5 support.
The Flash support has always been
really useful to give us a really
compact media type for doing all
sorts of interesting interface work
and animation and things like that.
The vectors just work very
nicely and they scale nicely.
They composite really well
with other kinds of QuickTime.
You just set that track to alpha and you
get all of the alpha compositing that's
going on in Flash is nicely composited
on top of the other QuickTime elements.
The authoring is popular.
People are very fond of their tool,
so this provides a really
nice authoring tool to make
interactive QuickTime movies,
because you can bring in your
QuickTime movies into Flash and add
interactive elements with Flash and spit
the thing back out as a QuickTime movie.
Eric Blaz: We've added a variety of wired
actions that we can use to
manipulate Flash elements,
set Flash variables,
trigger Flash buttons,
and we can also attach our wired
actions to the Flash buttons
themselves in another author tool
like Live Stage or something.
Oh yeah, we're still on slides.
Right.
So, um...
New with Flash 5,
we get some of the Flash 5 features.
One of the things that's in there
that people like is HTML text,
allowing you to do a certain
amount of styling your text,
and XML handling, allowing you to import
XML files with that,
and you can use the
style tags within there,
so you can bring in formatted text,
and you can manipulate it dynamically.
And the large amount of scriptability
that came with ActionScript in Flash 5
is available within your Flash tracks.
And because we can trigger Flash buttons
and whatnot from QuickTime actions,
you can do all sorts of neat things
with using the Flash track as,
you know, having complicated
ActionScript functions that you
trigger from other parts of QuickTime.
So now we will go to the demos
and see something about Flash 5.
All right.
Demo 2, please.
Now, like all the other file formats
we've been dragging into QuickTime,
Flash files just work.
A nice way to lay these
out would be in Live Stage.
Here's our Flash track.
Here's a sprite track.
You can see if we look at
the single sprite in here,
we have somewhat of a complex script,
but here's the key right here.
Track of ID 1.
which would be our Flash track, ID1.
We can set Flash variables
from within QuickTime.
This is Live Stage's
QScript notation for Wired Actions,
but it's a pretty seamless
integration with Flash interactivity.
So what we can do with this Flash file,
The first step is skinning in QuickTime,
something that you can't do in Flash,
and exchange data with other
QuickTime tracks or with
a server or with a video,
or you could be controlling a video
track at the same time or even
incorporate Flash overlays on top of VR.
the slides then.
So, third party components are a topic
that's been touched on a little bit,
but I wanted to cover it some since
we're here and there's a number of
them that are adding interesting
interactive capabilities to QuickTime.
The fact that QuickTime is based on this
component architecture makes it really
easy for developers to extend it and
add their own kinds of things to it.
This allows us to come up,
people to come up with all kinds of new
media types that we don't do at all.
And those new things can mix with
the other media just as we've
been talking about the QuickTime,
the QuickTime types.
And, you know,
Then also we've got the
QuickTime Component Download program,
which is a program by which developers,
Apple hosts,
The components from some developers
on Apple's download servers,
and then when a movie that uses that
component is encountered by the player,
if it doesn't have the component,
it can check the server and
offer to download the component
dynamically for the user,
which in most cases doesn't even
require reloading the movie.
Often with media types,
you need to reload the movie,
but with codecs and things,
it usually just keeps going.
The third-party components in
the component download program
right now include Indio,
Onto, Streambox, and Zygo Video,
who all provide codecs for
various sorts of purposes.
And BeHere, iPix, Pulse3D,
and Zoomify all provide media types
that allow you to do various things.
And Pulse and Zoomify
in particular provide...
Media types which have a lot of
interactivity and have got wired actions
around for you to do things with.
[Transcript missing]
Which we're pretty pleased about.
So here we have a 36K movie
playing here in QuickTime.
It's an interactive,
well-designed for the web kind of thing.
Using a video texture map here that's
streaming off of the Apple website.
So, as you can see, the possibilities for
this are just great.
We want to switch over to demo two now,
and Ben will show you a little bit
about the authoring process with Axle.
Cool.
Well, we've had a 3D component
in QuickTime in version 5,
the Pulse component,
but what makes Axle great is their
authoring tool is cross-platform.
It runs on 9, 10, and Windows.
It's also extremely easy to use.
I really see it as something that even
the most novice Flash animator could get
their hands on and be able to understand.
So you have your traditional
4-view 3D modeler here.
Wireframe and Rendered View,
and you can preview how that will
interact right in the authoring tool.
It's really amazing because
pretty much every parameter in
the application is animatable.
and they have an excellent
sequencer timeline view.
and I will be talking
about the QuickTime app.
And this should just blow your socks off.
You can create the most complex
interactivity in Axle without
even writing a line of code.
They have a notion of things called
sensors or triggers and reactions,
and you can have a lot of different
You can have a sensor be
triggered by pretty much anything,
a key, the mouse.
You can communicate with the
host application as well,
including QuickTime.
So here we have time
sensors at various times.
We play sounds.
And the linkages between
These sensors and reactions
have various properties,
how they're supposed to loop,
how they're supposed to
re-trigger themselves,
essentially.
create groups of reactions
and develop very complex
interactivity in no time at all.
So this plays an animation that has a
path constraint with a number of keys.
Toggl's Parameter is
visible and invisible.
So it's really a powerful tool.
So let's see what some people have been
doing with this inside of QuickTime.
This is a movie.
And the media is being handled
by the Axial Media Handler.
We're lucky to have Justin here.
He did most of the work on this.
The great thing about Axle is
that they are not only a consumer
of the QuickTime technology,
but they're also a contributor.
By writing a third-party component,
they are bringing their own
media to all of your apps that
are built around QuickTime,
and you get this for free.
[Transcript missing]
Particles and other sorts
of dynamics built in.
Some particles going on.
I think we can move
the light around here.
And I think this is my favorite.
Don't forget.
Check this out.
Let's see if I can remember the controls.
Space bar is jump.
You can see some of the images
and texture mapping going on here.
I'm not positive,
but I'm assuming they're using
QuickTime importers to handle
a wide variety of images.
and audio and video,
and so on and so forth.
So it's QuickTime playing in Axle,
which is playing in QuickTime.
Exactly.
So you could have Axle playing
inside of Axle in QuickTime in Axle.
All right.
So then we come down to tons
of media we've talked about.
Well, so it's multimedia when
you put it together.
So let's mix up that stuff.
Just zip right back over
to the demo machine,
go to demo two here, and look at some,
uh,
and Eric Blazow,
who are the founders of the So here's
something that is definitely on the
pure engineering demo kind of style,
but this shows a sprite track
over on this side with a piece
of MPEG video slapped on top.
and a Flash track over here.
And there's a chapter track,
so we can see the different
chapters available.
And these sprite buttons here
change the chapter using some
new features in QuickTime 6,
some new actions for
manipulating chapters.
They also have updated the Flash.
So the Flash buttons are changing the
chapters with the same wired actions,
as well as the sprite buttons.
And the text that's being drawn
here is using Flash's XML import
and HTML style text handling,
so we can format it and edit
it outside of the movie just
by fiddling with that here.
So let's just try changing some
color of some of that text.
Open up the movie again.
I forget which sample.
Yeah, we just changed that one to white.
So that's production-wise a pretty
useful thing within the Flash 5 support.
Another one to get into a slightly
more complex sort of movie.
Here's a...
A skinned movie done for marketing
purpose for the new Mini.
They've got a...
[Transcript missing]
and the little close button.
So there we're getting into the
sorts of things you can do when
you start taking a bunch of
different kinds of QuickTime media
and layering them up together.
Let's speed on ahead, back on the slides,
to briefly talk about
intermovie communication.
Basically,
you can send messages between movies.
Any particular object in a movie
that can do wired actions can target
a movie within the hierarchy of
another movie to create all sorts
of opportunities with manipulating
the various properties and whatnot.
Another thing that we do a lot of
interesting things with is XML.
As you may be picking up from
a number of these places,
XML is the text format where QuickTime is
sort of standardizing on to do various
kinds of descriptions of things.
XML in QuickTime is...
As far as the interactive QuickTime goes,
it happens with QT lists.
QT lists are just hierarchical
variables that you can have
within a movie or a track.
And they have this sort of element
attribute sort of appearance
that you see in an XML file.
But what's neat about them is that you
can import them and get them out as XML.
So one example of doing this is as config
files that you load up to make a movie,
a generically authored movie,
open to have different sorts
of appearances depending
on what XML is around.
You can also pass them in
now through the plug-in.
So the embed tag in an HTML page can
have an XML list in there for a QT list.
And when that movie opens,
it's going to have the QT list
loaded into memory and ready to be
worked on with your wired actions.
and then you can do server
communication with them.
You can select any portion of the
QT list in a movie and fire it
off to a server somewhere and deal
with it with your CGI's on that
end and do some really neat stuff,
which we're going to get
into trying to talk about.
So I'm going to show some demos here.
I'll just show you a little schematic
of the basic layout that we'll get to.
Basically, we'll have a single movie,
which is looking at a database on a
server we've got running over here.
And there we'll have some Perl CGI's,
which manipulate the data
coming in from the movie.
We'll do things like check a
MySQL database and send back information,
formatted XML,
out of the database to allow the movie to
then do what it needs to to grab things
like other movies and graphics and all.
to do its presentation.
So let's go back to demo two here.
Ben's got up the XML that we see.
[Transcript missing]
Using PHP, we can look at the database
that we've got here.
So, I mean, this is one of the really fun
things about this is that,
you know, I didn't know much about any of
this stuff a couple months ago,
but just downloaded all this open source
stuff and installed it on my OS X box and
messed around with it and get it working.
So we've got a number of
movies here that have got,
the database has got a movie name field,
the URL to the movie, URL to a thumbnail,
a description if we want to use that,
and a hits field that we could use
for monitoring how often people are
viewing the movies and things like that.
So let's...
have a look at a movie which is
going to talk to that database.
So here, this movie,
that was kind of quick,
let's do it again.
This movie goes and hits the database.
On open, it sends a server query to the
database and it gets back the
list that you saw there as XML,
which becomes a QT list.
And then it does things like imports the,
a set of JPEGs and Pings and things
that I'm using as new sprite images,
which get stuck on these sprites
so we can scroll them around.
And we can pop open a sprite and view it
there and maybe even dump the right text
that comes out of the database as well.
And we can even go ahead
and load that movie into a,
right into a movie track here.
or we've got some
RTSP streaming there too.
That same server's got the
QuickTime streaming server on it.
And give you the idea of the
sort of a dynamic thing that,
oh, well.
Sort of dynamic applications you can be
building once QuickTime 6 is finished.
Something that actually you could
be doing though with QuickTime 5,
here's a project where
There's a movie with a bit of XML which
[Transcript missing]
Fire up this movie.
Here it is as a skinned movie.
It goes and instead of
its built-in graphics,
it's loaded all of these
graphics in a sort of a,
you know, HTML web page style setup.
It's loaded in its external graphics and
built an interface for us which has a
lot of sprite images that do their thing,
including the
Closed Captioning by
The Closed Captioning Project
This had the same movie,
the same skin point of the movie,
different set of graphics.
We've edited the text file.
We open up the same movie,
and we've got a
completely different look.
The skin changed,
the graphic changing in there,
the buttons are different.
But again, we've authored,
we've done the hard work of
authoring one interactive movie once.
And then when we needed to change
the content it was playing,
it was all Photoshop work
and a little bit of BBEdit.
There was no more of that
live stage stuff that people
sometimes get scared away by.
[Transcript missing]
That's going to have to happen over here,
right?
Can we switch back to the slide machine?
And we'll look at a movie that does
a number of interesting things.
Here is the website
for Commanding Heights.
So here's something that's
actually shipping that somebody's
really using this stuff for.
So this is WGBH in Boston has made
a really sophisticated website to
go with this program that they aired
last month called Commanding Heights.
It's three two-hour episodes.
They've put the entire six hours
online encoded at various rates,
and they've presented it within...
Within some interactive movies.
Is somebody else using the
entire pipe at the convention?
[Transcript missing]
All right, here it is locally.
Not all the features work locally.
Whoops.
So... the... They've got
the whole thing laid out.
and Broken Down into Chapters.
So there's a different episode
for each of the two-hour episodes,
and those are all divided
into these chapters.
They open up in these...
In these movies, which have completely
sprite-drawn backgrounds and all,
with their own interface to play,
Can we get demo two, please?
I was approached by a government
official who had watched the movie.
Okay, so maybe I'll do a step
or two of that again.
So we go and we launch the movie here.
And here we have a...
A chunk of the video playing.
They've got their own
controller down here.
They've got features like captions,
which are being done by
QuickTime text track.
They've got their own volume control.
You'll notice that bits of information
pop up over here on this side as we go.
These are links to other
sorts of information,
like we can open up another text window
with the entire interview with that guy.
If we scrub ahead a little,
we'll see that we start to get some--
Some interactive information here,
which would link into
other parts of the thing.
We also noticed that this
little movie popped up.
This little window contains
a movie they call The Brain,
which has information for
navigating between the movies.
Let's look at the time map.
There's another
interesting feature of it.
This is a flash track we can zoom
way in on and then navigate around.
And as we scrub the time here,
we see the dominant economic model
for the time that's being viewed.
So there happens to be, I realize,
a flash point here.
Then we have cross links,
which are based upon
the information here,
which would take us into
their country reports.
Here we have the time map.
which, um,
through the intermovie communication
going on between all of these pieces,
it will be populating, um,
with the appropriate data
for what we're looking at,
although I think this may be one of
the things that doesn't work locally.
Yeah.
All right,
so we don't get the text data that
we wanted that comes out of XML.
They're using a lot of
QT lists in XML here as well.
So, um, the cool thing about
that is there they are,
um, needing to show a lot of information,
uh, way more information than what
actually went into the show,
and they're able to give a whole, uh,
a whole set of different ways of
looking at the information for anybody,
uh, anybody's own style of consuming it.
And what was nice and worked
for them is that they created
this country report movie once,
essentially, and for each time,
or each time in the timeline,
and each country in, uh...
and Eric Schultz,
who are the founders of QuickTime,
are the founders of
the QuickTime platform.
They are the founders of
Eric Blazpiek, Ben Bandt-Horn,
and Eric Schultz,
who are the founders of QuickTime.
Eric Blazpiek, Ben Bandt-Horn,
and Eric Schultz,
who are the founders of QuickTime.
It appears that we're
getting towards the end,
but we do have some
ambitious stuff ahead of us,
so let's do a quick
overview of what we've done,
and then we'll try and build
something that we hope will work well.
So, in conclusion, only QuickTime.
supports all of these tons of
media types we're talking about.
A lot of things that we have
within QuickTime and a lot of
things that are just played by
taking these other formats in.
And only QuickTime can combine them in
this elegant fashion and make it easy
for them to interact with one another
and communicate with the outside world
through server communication and things.
Only in QuickTime can you deliver content
like that that's going to look the
same no matter which QuickTime playing
platform you deliver it on.
So to get into our closing demo,
we'll want to switch Demo 2 to
the screen on my left and Demo
1 to the screen on my right.
Okay, so we've seen most of the major
forms of QuickTime in this session,
or interactive forms of
QuickTime in this session.
Let's have a look at some of these.
We've modified a couple of these movies
a little bit so that when we say...
We'll open up the sprite fish over here.
This guy's swimming around.
Now, the modified version of this movie
from what you saw before has got
a little bit of a script in it
which populates the database.
Whoops.
and has put itself in with a link
to where it is and a thumbnail
for it and what its text might be.
And it'll sit there playing.
And then maybe we'll
open up the linear fish,
which should also go into the database.
[Transcript missing]
Some actual content that's skinned.
That little guy follows us around.
All right, now I'm going to, over here,
I'm going to...
Go somewhere else,
say... Did you change that or not?
Oops.
So, um, I've got a movie here
which I can open up,
which will look at the database
and populate itself with the
movies that we've got open.
So there's the linear
fish and the sprite fish.
Well, okay, so we're being ambitious.
Something's not happening
with the Axlefish.
As I feed them, we'll notice that it's
feeding the fishes on screen.
Charlie Tuna went to try to
get his food when I fed him,
but it didn't work.
This is happening,
although I'm opening it on one machine,
it's going out to the
server and then coming back.
If anyone's out there with AirPort,
we've got AirPort going on in here.
You'll notice there's a
session 603 AirPort network.
And if you do that, the password is WWDC.
Go to the URL here,
which is 10.0.1.4 slash index1html,
and you can open that movie.
And there should be QuickTime 6
and 5 versions in there.
So if anybody's installed Jaguar,
they'll get that by using a ref movie.
It doesn't matter which.
You don't need to pick anything.
You'll just get the right one.
There's the Flash movie.
Now, one thing we haven't done
here is the live stuff.
So let's try and make it even more
complicated and get that involved.
So I'm going to need a little help,
though.
Can I volunteer out of the audience?
Are you over here, sir?
No, not you.
What's your name?
My name's Peter.
And are you new to Mac?
You know, I used to use it a lot,
but the last couple years,
that whole flying dock, genie thing,
it was kind of intimidating,
so I'm a little out of date.
So what platform do you work on most?
XP something.
Yeah, right.
Have you done anything
with QuickTime before?
Yeah, yeah, I have some experience.
Actually,
it came pre-installed on my BIOS,
so yeah,
I've got some experience with it.
All right, great.
Well, I'm going to give you a
PowerBook and a Broadcaster here,
and we'll see how it goes.
and a camera and a fireware cable
and knock yourself out for me.
I've got a lot of hands there.
Thanks.
We can... Has anybody managed to
get the fish feeding movie up?
Cool.
So we got that going.
Let's see what the
database is looking like.
Sure enough, there's a few of the movies.
And goodness,
we've had a lot of hits happening there.
So that fish is just
going to keep feeding,
isn't it?
Now don't feed the flash fish too much.
It'll die.
It's serious.
That's a wise thing to do.
How's that going?
Uh-oh.
Did I tell you?
Did you click broadcast?
Should I hit broadcast?
. Acts are hard to use, man.
. So let's revive him.
Okay, there we go.
So now you're probably going to
want something to point that at,
right?
How about this?
Now I think we've got another
movie to open up for that.
Do we?
It's over here.
Sure.
There we go.
Oh wait, we need a way to feed him.
So let's grab some food.
We've got some electrodes
attached to the server here.
Could you get a little closer
maybe and roll up your sleeves?
[Transcript missing]
Now, if you close the movie
head here and reopen it,
it ought to...
Yeah, it's got the live fish
one in there as well.
So I don't know if anybody wants to
try to get Peter to feed the fish,
but...
I guess someone is.
Well,
that pretty much concludes our demo.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Peter.